^title 致谢

I've heard only other authors know what's involved in writing a book, but there
is another tribe who know the precise weight of that burden -- those with the
misfortune of being in a relationship with a writer. I wrote this in a space of
time painstakingly carved from the dense rock of life for me by my wife Megan.
Washing dishes and giving the kids baths may not be "writing", but without her
doing those, this book wouldn't be here.

据说只有作家知道写作中会牵扯到什么，
但还有另外一群人知道内情——那些不幸与作家有关的人。
我的妻子从岩石般致密的生活中，
为我开凿出写作时间。
洗盘子，给孩子洗澡也许不是“写作”，
但没有她完成这些，这本书永远没法写出来。

I started this project while a programmer at Electronic Arts. I don't think the
company knew quite what to make of it, and I'm grateful to Michael Malone,
Olivier Nallet, and Richard Wifall for supporting it and providing detailed,
insightful feedback on the first few chapters.

我在EA做程序员时开始了这个项目。
我认为公司并不知道这点，
我要感谢Michael Malone, Olivier Nallet, 以及Richard Wifall。
他们为书籍的前几章提供了详尽有益的建议。

<span name="editor">About</span> halfway through writing, I decided to forgo a traditional publisher. I
knew that meant losing the guidance an editor brings, but I had email from
dozens of readers telling me where they wanted the book to go. I'd lose
proofreaders, but I had over 250 bug reports to help improve the prose. I'd give
up the incentive of a writing schedule, but with readers patting my back when I
finished each chapter, I had more than enough motivation.

<span name="editor"></span>在写作途中，我决定放弃传统出版方式。
我知道，这意味着没有编辑的指导，但有成打的读者告诉我他们希望书籍是什么样的；
这意味着没有校对，但有超过<span name="colm">250个</span>错误报告来帮我改进；
这意味着没有写作期限的激励，但当我完成一章，读者会拍着我的背鼓励，我会有更强的动力。

<aside name="editor">

我没有失去文字编辑。Lauren Briese在我所需时出现并杰出地完成了工作。

</aside>


They call this "self publishing", but "crowd publishing" is closer to the mark.
Writing can be lonely work, but I was never alone. Even when I put the book on a
shelf for two years, the encouragement continued. Without the dozens of people
who didn't let me forget that they were waiting for more chapters, I never would
have picked it back up and finished.

人们称之为“自出版”，但是“众出版”更加接近事实。
写作也许是件孤独的事，但我从没感到孤独。
哪怕是我停止写作两年后，仍有人来鼓励我。
没有那些告诉我他们需要更多章节的人，我不会重拾此书并完成。

<aside name="colm">

特别感谢Colm Sloan，他认真阅读了书中每个章节*两遍*，完全出于内心的善意，给了我众多超赞的反馈。我欠他一杯啤酒，也许二十杯。

</aside>

To everyone who emailed or commented, upvoted or favorited, tweeted or
retweeted, anyone who reached out to me, or told a friend about the book, or
sent me a bug report: my heart is filled with gratitude for you. Completing this
book was one of my biggest goals in life, and you made it happen.

那些写过邮件或者发过评论的人，
那些点过赞或者喜欢的人，
那些发过推特的人，那些与我交流的人，
那些向朋友宣传这本书的人，那些向我发送错误报告的人，
我要对你们说：我心中充满了对你的感激。
完成这本书是我人生中最大的目标之一，是你让我梦想成真。

Thank you!

谢谢！
